QUICK-START
===========

In Windows, once the software is installed you'll find the programs TQSLCert
and TQSL under the Start/Programs/TrustedQSL menu. (Unless you selected a
different menu during installation.) The installer also lets you place
shortcuts to these programs on your desktop.

IT IS NOT NECESSARY TO PERFORM THE FOLLOWING STEPS IF YOU ARE SIMPLY
UPGRADING TO A NEW VERSION OF THE SOFTWARE.

1) CREATE A CERTIFICATE REQUEST. Run TQSLCert. You'll get a message
reporting that you have no certificates and asking if you want to
request one. Say YES. Then proceed through the request wizard, saving
the request into a file.

   a) The request wizard will ask you to supply a call sign. Use your
   present call sign -- without any portable identifiers.

   b) The QSO start date is the first date for which you'll enter QSO
   records into the system using the call sign you supply. Normally this is
   the issue date for your license. Leave the QSO end date blank for a
   license that is current.

   c) For US call signs, your mailing address should agree with the
   address in the FCC database. If your address is different, you must
   register your new address with the FCC.

   d) The request wizard includes a page that allows you to digitally
   sign the certificate request. On your initial request, you must choose
   "unsigned" since you have no certificate with which to sign.

   e) Remember where on your computer you save the certificate
   request file for the next step!

2) SUBMIT THE CERTIFICATE REQUEST. Send the .TQ5 file created in step 1 as
an attachment in an email message to lotw-logs@arrl.org, or upload it via
the Web (https://www.arrl.org/lotw/). If you are a US licensee, you will
then receive a post card in the mail with further instructions. (The
post card will be sent to the address you have in the FCC database, so
make sure that's correct!) If you are a non-US licensee, you must submit
proof of license and identity to receive your certificate. See
http://www.arrl.org/lotw/ for details.

NOTE! IT IS IMPORTANT that you do NOT delete the certificate request (the 
red-lined icon) from TQSLCert once it has been sent. Each certificate
request is unique and must match the certificate that will be returned to
you by the issuer. If you delete the certificate request from TQSLCert, you
will NEVER be able to load or use the received certificate!

3) LOAD THE CERTIFICATE. Once your certificate has been issued it will
be sent as a .TQ6 file to the email address you entered into the certificate
request during step 1. You should be able to double-click the attachment
in the received message to launch TQSLCert to load the .TQ6 file. If
that doesn't work, save the attachment to disk, run TQSLCert and use its
File menu's "Load Certificate File" command to find and load in the
.TQ6 file. Once that's done, TQSLCert should show your certificate in its
certificate list with a gold emblem next to your call.

4) SAVE THE CERTIFICATE. This step is strongly recommended. If you do not
perform this step and later lose your certificate (due to a hard-drive crash
or system reinstall, for example), your certificate will be unrecoverable.
Click on the certificate in the certificate list to select it, then choose
the Certificate menu's Save command. Save the certificate file onto a floppy
disk or other off-line medium.

5) REQUEST ADDITIONAL CERTIFICATES. Logbook of the World treats a call
sign with a portable identifier (e.g. NU1AW/4 or KP2/W1AW) as a separate
call sign. To submit log data using such a call sign, you need a
certificate with that call sign in it. Once you have received your
certificate for your present call sign, repeat the process above, but in
step 1d, sign the request with the certificate for your present call sign.
This will speed the process of getting the certificate and will ensure that
all of your certificates appear under your Web site user account.

6) CREATE A LOG FILE. If you have a logging program that can produce log
files in ADIF or Cabrillo format, you can use those files directly. If
you just want to enter a few QSOs into a log file, you can run TQSL and
choose the File menu's "Create New ADIF file" command.

7) CREATE A STATION LOCATION. In TQSL, select "Station/Add Location"
from the menu. Step through the wizard to specify the location of the
station used to make the contacts you'll be submitting. At the end of the
wizard, enter a name to use for this station location, e.g., "Home" or
"Portable in EM29."

8) CREATE A SIGNED LOG SUBMISSION. In TQSL, select "Sign existing ADIF
or Cabrillo file" from the File menu. In the resulting "Select Station
Location" dialog, select the station location and click "Ok." You'll
then be asked to select the log file (a file in ADIF or Cabrillo format)
to sign. Finally, you'll be asked to name the file and select the location
(directory) where TQSL will save the .TQ8 (signed log) file.

9) SEND THE SUBMISSION. Send the .TQ8 file created in step 8 as an
attachment via email to lotw-logs@arrl.org. You will receive an email
response. (More than one file can be attached to an email message.) Or you
can upload the file at https://www.arrl.org/lotw/

10) Visit the LOTW Web site at https://www.arrl.org/lotw/ to view your
submitted data and confirmations and apply for award credits. Submit any
bug reports to lotw-help@arrl.org.

